docs/developer/userinfo.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Getting the user info

## CentralAuth NPM library

When using the CentralAuth NPM library, there are two ways to get the user info.

- `getUserData`: The first way is to use the `getUserData` method on the `CentralAuthClass` instance. This method takes a `Headers` object of the current request as an argument. It will return an object that contains the user info of the currently logged in user.
- `user`: The second way is to use the `user` method on the `CentralAuthClass` instance. This method takes the `Request` object of the current request as an argument. It will return a `Response` JSON object with the user info of the currently logged in user. When the user is not logged in, the `Response` object will contain `null`. If there was an error while getting the user info, the `Response` object will contain null and any access token stored in the user's cookies will be deleted.

When requesting the user info, the library will contact the CentralAuth API to get the user info. The library will use the access token stored in the user's cookies to authenticate the request. If the user's session is still valid, the object with user info will be returned.

:::caution
If you have enabled the `unsafeIncludeUser` option, the user info will be retrieved directly from the JWE token stored in the user's cookies. This option will bypass the checks on the CentralAuth server and is not recommended for production use. Only use this option if you have minimized the risk of session hijacking and you need to get the user info without the overhead of contacting the CentralAuth API. The `unsafeIncludeUser` option is disabled by default.
:::

:::tip
You can also pass a user's access token in the Authorization header of the request instead of using cookies. This is useful if you want to set up a proxy server that will forward the request to the CentralAuth API. Set the access token in the Authorization header as `Bearer <access_token>`. The library will use this access token to authenticate the request.
:::

:::note
When using the CentralAuthHTTPClass subclass, you can use the `getUserDataHTTP` and `userHTTP` methods. Both methods take an `IncomingMessage` as the first argument and the `userHTTP` method takes a `ServerResponse` object as the second argument. The `userHTTP` method does not return a `Response` object, but instead sends the redirect response directly to the client.
:::

## Manual integration

If you cannot use the NPM library, you can get the user info manually. 

### Using the access token

You can use the user's access token from the `verify` endpoint to request the user info from the CentralAuth server. Make a POST request to the CentralAuth user info endpoint. The base URL for the user info endpoint is `https://centralauth.com/api/v1/userinfo`. The POST body must contain the user's access token as plain text.

Set a `domain` query parameter to the domain of your application that the user is logged in to. The domain must match any registered [whitelist domain](/admin/dashboard/organization/settings#whitelist-domains) on the CentralAuth organization. The domain is used to verify that the user has enabled the session for that domain. If the domain does not match, the request will be rejected.

The IP address and user agent of the user must be present in the request headers. If the request is coming from a (proxy) server, you have to include these headers manually. The headers must be set as follows:
- `auth-ip`: The IP address of the user. This header is used to verify the user's IP address against the initial login attempt. Only used for web applications.
- `user-agent`: The user agent of the user's browser. This header is used to verify the user's browser against the initial login attempt. Only used for web applications.
- `device-id` A unique identifier for the user's device. This header is used to verify the user's device against the initial login attempt. This can be any unique string that identifies the device, such as a UUID or a hash of the device's hardware information. Only used for native apps.

Set the `Authorization` header of the request to a base64 encoded string of the client ID and client secret of your application, separated by a colon. The client ID and client secret can be found on the CentralAuth dashboard. The format of the header is `Basic base64(client_id:client_secret)`. The `client_id` and `client_secret` can be found on the [integration](/admin/dashboard/organization/integration) page of the CentralAuth dashboard.

<details>
<summary>CURL example</summary>

Replace `CLIENT_ID`, `CLIENT_SECRET`, `YOUR_DOMAIN`, `USER_IP`, `USER_AGENT` and `ACCESS_TOKEN` with the values of your application and the user's session. 

```bash
# Create the Authorization header by base64 encoding "CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET"
AUTH_HEADER=$(echo -n "CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET" | base64)

curl -X POST https://centralauth.com/api/v1/userinfo?domain=YOUR_DOMAIN \
  -H "Authorization: Basic $AUTH_HEADER" \
  -H "Content-Type: text/plain" \
  -H "auth-ip: USER_IP" \
  -H "user-agent: USER_AGENT" \
  -d "ACCESS_TOKEN"
```
</details>

The response of the request will contain the user's info in JSON format.

### Using the ID token

You can also use the ID token from the `verify` endpoint to get the user info. The ID token is a JWE token that can be decoded using your client secret for direct access to the user information. Please note that while this is a faster way to retrieve the user information, it is also less secure.

To decode the ID token, you can use any library to support encoding JWT tokens. For example, you can use the `jose` NPM library. The ID token is a JWE token, so you will need to use the `jwtDecrypt` method to decode the token. The `jwtDecrypt` method takes the ID token and the client secret as arguments and returns the user info object:

```javascript
import { jwtDecrypt } from 'jose';

const textEncoder = new TextEncoder();
const { payload } = await jwtDecrypt(ID_TOKEN, textEncoder.encode(CLIENT_SECRET));
```

Replace `ID_TOKEN` and `CLIENT_SECRET` with the values of your application. 

The `payload` object will contain a session ID and the user info object. The user info object will contain the same properties as the one returned by the CentralAuth API.

:::caution
Please note that retrieving the user info from the ID token will bypass the checks on the CentralAuth server and is not recommended for production use. Only use this if you have minimized the risk of session hijacking and you need to get the user info without the overhead of contacting the CentralAuth API.
:::

:::tip
You can also use the ID token to retrieve the user info from the CentralAuth server the same way as the access token.
:::

## Native app

You cannot get the user info directly in a native app. You will need to set up a backend server that will handle the request to the CentralAuth API. The backend server can then forward the user info to the native app. Check the [quick example](/developer/quick-example#step-8-handle-the-actions) on how to make an API route to get the user info.

**Example for React Native:**

```tsx
  useEffect(() => {
    if (accessToken) {
      // Fetch user data using the access token
      axios.get<User>("https://yourwebsite.com/api/auth/user", {
        headers: {
          Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
          "device-id": "UNIQUE_DEVICE_ID" // Optional, but recommended
        }
      }).then(({data}) => {
        //Do something with the user data
      }).catch(error => {
        //Handle error (e.g. invalidate access token)
      });
    }
  }, [accessToken]);
```

The API route at /api/auth/user should handle the request to the CentralAuth API and return the user info to the native app. If you use the CentralAuth NPM library, you can use the `user` method on the `CentralAuthClass` instance to automatically get the user info. Otherwise you can make the request to the CentralAuth API manually [as described above](#manual-integration).

## The user info object

The user info object will contain the following properties:
- `id`: The unique ID of the user.
- `email`: The email address of the user. This is the email address that was used to log in to CentralAuth.
- `gravatar`: The [gravatar](https://www.gravatar.com) URL of the user. This URL can be used to display the user's profile picture.
- `verified`: A boolean value that indicates whether the user's email address has been verified. This value is set to `true` if the user has verified their email address, otherwise it is set to `false`.
- `blocked`: A boolean value that indicates whether the user is blocked. This value is set to `true` if the user is blocked, otherwise it is set to `false`. Keep in mind that a blocked user can still log in to CentralAuth. You can decide the implications for a blocked user in your application.
- `organizationId`: The ID of the organization that the user belongs to.
- `created`: The date and time when the user was created.
- `updated`: The date and time when the user was last updated.

Commit message:

Updated documentation for caching, user info retrieval, and error handling

docs/developer/userinfo.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Getting the user info

## CentralAuth NPM library

When using the CentralAuth NPM library, there are two ways to get the user info.

- `getUserData`: The first way is to use the `getUserData` method on the `CentralAuthClass` instance. This method takes a `Headers` object of the current request as an argument. It will return an object that contains the user info of the currently logged in user.
- `user`: The second way is to use the `user` method on the `CentralAuthClass` instance. This method takes a `Headers` object of the current request as an argument. It will return a `Response` JSON object with the user info of the currently logged in user. When the user is not logged in, the `Response` object will contain `null`. If there was an error while getting the user info, the `Response` object will contain null and any access token stored in the user's cookies will be deleted.

When requesting the user info, the library will contact the CentralAuth API to get the user info. The library will use the access token stored in the user's cookies to authenticate the request. If the user's session is still valid, the object with user info will be returned.

:::caution
If you have enabled the `unsafeIncludeUser` option, the user info will be retrieved directly from the JWE token stored in the user's cookies. This option will bypass the checks on the CentralAuth server and is not recommended for production use. Only use this option if you have minimized the risk of session hijacking and you need to get the user info without the overhead of contacting the CentralAuth API. The `unsafeIncludeUser` option is disabled by default. If you are looking for a way to minimize overhead when retrieving user info, consider using caching instead. See the [caching documentation](/developer/caching) for more information.
:::

:::tip
You can also pass a user's access token in the Authorization header of the request instead of using cookies. This is useful if you want to set up a proxy server that will forward the request to the CentralAuth API. Set the access token in the Authorization header as `Bearer <access_token>`. The library will use this access token to authenticate the request.
:::

:::note
When using the CentralAuthHTTPClass subclass, you can use the `getUserDataHTTP` and `userHTTP` methods. Both methods take an `IncomingMessage` as the first argument and the `userHTTP` method takes a `ServerResponse` object as the second argument. The `userHTTP` method does not return a `Response` object, but instead sends the redirect response directly to the client.
:::

## Manual integration

If you cannot use the NPM library, you can get the user info manually. 

### Using the access token

You can use the user's access token from the `verify` endpoint to request the user info from the CentralAuth server. Make a POST request to the CentralAuth user info endpoint. The base URL for the user info endpoint is `https://centralauth.com/api/v1/userinfo`. The POST body must contain the user's access token as plain text.

Set a `domain` query parameter to the domain of your application that the user is logged in to. The domain must match any registered [whitelist domain](/admin/dashboard/organization/settings#whitelist-domains) on the CentralAuth organization. The domain is used to verify that the user has enabled the session for that domain. If the domain does not match, the request will be rejected.

The IP address and user agent of the user must be present in the request headers. If the request is coming from a (proxy) server, you have to include these headers manually. The headers must be set as follows:
- `auth-ip`: The IP address of the user. This header is used to verify the user's IP address against the initial login attempt. Only used for web applications.
- `user-agent`: The user agent of the user's browser. This header is used to verify the user's browser against the initial login attempt. Only used for web applications.
- `device-id` A unique identifier for the user's device. This header is used to verify the user's device against the initial login attempt. This can be any unique string that identifies the device, such as a UUID or a hash of the device's hardware information. Only used for native apps.

Set the `Authorization` header of the request to a base64 encoded string of the client ID and client secret of your application, separated by a colon. The client ID and client secret can be found on the CentralAuth dashboard. The format of the header is `Basic base64(client_id:client_secret)`. The `client_id` and `client_secret` can be found on the [integration](/admin/dashboard/organization/integration) page of the CentralAuth dashboard.

<details>
<summary>CURL example</summary>

Replace `CLIENT_ID`, `CLIENT_SECRET`, `YOUR_DOMAIN`, `USER_IP`, `USER_AGENT` and `ACCESS_TOKEN` with the values of your application and the user's session. 

```bash
# Create the Authorization header by base64 encoding "CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET"
AUTH_HEADER=$(echo -n "CLIENT_ID:CLIENT_SECRET" | base64)

curl -X POST https://centralauth.com/api/v1/userinfo?domain=YOUR_DOMAIN \
  -H "Authorization: Basic $AUTH_HEADER" \
  -H "Content-Type: text/plain" \
  -H "auth-ip: USER_IP" \
  -H "user-agent: USER_AGENT" \
  -d "ACCESS_TOKEN"
```
</details>

The response of the request will contain the user's info in JSON format.

### Using the ID token

You can also use the ID token from the `verify` endpoint to get the user info. The ID token is a JWE token that can be decoded using your client secret for direct access to the user information. Please note that while this is a faster way to retrieve the user information, it is also less secure.

To decode the ID token, you can use any library to support encoding JWT tokens. For example, you can use the `jose` NPM library. The ID token is a JWE token, so you will need to use the `jwtDecrypt` method to decode the token. The `jwtDecrypt` method takes the ID token and the client secret as arguments and returns the user info object:

```javascript
import { jwtDecrypt } from 'jose';

const textEncoder = new TextEncoder();
const { payload } = await jwtDecrypt(ID_TOKEN, textEncoder.encode(CLIENT_SECRET));
```

Replace `ID_TOKEN` and `CLIENT_SECRET` with the values of your application. 

The `payload` object will contain a session ID and the user info object. The user info object will contain the same properties as the one returned by the CentralAuth API.

:::caution
Please note that retrieving the user info from the ID token will bypass the checks on the CentralAuth server and is not recommended for production use. Only use this if you have minimized the risk of session hijacking and you need to get the user info without the overhead of contacting the CentralAuth API.
:::

:::tip
You can also use the ID token to retrieve the user info from the CentralAuth server the same way as the access token.
:::

## Native app

You cannot get the user info directly in a native app. You will need to set up a backend server that will handle the request to the CentralAuth API. The backend server can then forward the user info to the native app. Check the [quick example](/developer/quick-example#step-8-handle-the-actions) on how to make an API route to get the user info.

**Example for React Native:**

```tsx
  useEffect(() => {
    if (accessToken) {
      // Fetch user data using the access token
      axios.get<User>("https://yourwebsite.com/api/auth/user", {
        headers: {
          Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
          "device-id": "UNIQUE_DEVICE_ID" // Optional, but recommended
        }
      }).then(({data}) => {
        //Do something with the user data
      }).catch(error => {
        //Handle error (e.g. invalidate access token)
      });
    }
  }, [accessToken]);
```

The API route at /api/auth/user should handle the request to the CentralAuth API and return the user info to the native app. If you use the CentralAuth NPM library, you can use the `user` method on the `CentralAuthClass` instance to automatically get the user info. Otherwise you can make the request to the CentralAuth API manually [as described above](#manual-integration).

## The user info object

The user info object will contain the following properties:
- `id`: The unique ID of the user.
- `email`: The email address of the user. This is the email address that was used to log in to CentralAuth.
- `gravatar`: The [gravatar](https://www.gravatar.com) URL of the user. This URL can be used to display the user's profile picture.
- `verified`: A boolean value that indicates whether the user's email address has been verified. This value is set to `true` if the user has verified their email address, otherwise it is set to `false`.
- `blocked`: A boolean value that indicates whether the user is blocked. This value is set to `true` if the user is blocked, otherwise it is set to `false`. Keep in mind that a blocked user can still log in to CentralAuth. You can decide the implications for a blocked user in your application.
- `organizationId`: The ID of the organization that the user belongs to.
- `created`: The date and time when the user was created.
- `updated`: The date and time when the user was last updated.
